---
layout: post
title:  "2020/10/30 Blog 8"
date:   2020-10-28 12:40:45 -0700
categories: Senior-Design
---
<html>
<style>
	html, body, h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6, p {
		font-family:  "Courier";
	}

	pre code {
                font-family: Consolas,"courier new";
		color: #666666;
		background-color: #ffe9ec;
		padding: 2px;
		padding-right: 7px;
        }
	
	body {
		background-color:#cce9ff;
	}

	.site-header {
		background-color:#ffe9ec;
	}

	.site-footer {
		background-color:#ffe9ec;
	}

	.row {
 		display: flex;
	}

	.column {
  		flex: 33.33%;
  		padding: 20px;
	}
	
	.scalable {
		width: 50%;
		height: auto;
	}
</style>

<body>
<h1><b>Introduction</b></h1>
<p>This blog will document the steps for replacing a line within a file using an Ansible Playbook in an Ubuntu Docker container.</p>
<br>

<h1><b>Prerequisites</b></h1>
<p>Before creating our Ansible Playbook, we should first create a Docker container using an Ubuntu image and have ansible installed, as well as something to edit our playbook with.</p>
<p>An example of this would look something like this:</p>
<pre>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;docker run –it -p 8080:80 ubuntu:18.04 /bin/bash
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;apt update && apt install -y ansible
</pre>
<p>With our setup complete we can start creating our Ansible Playbook.</p>
<p>Ansible Playbook Creation Example:</p>
<pre>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;vi playbook.yml
</pre>
<br>

<h1><b>Ansible Playbook</b></h1>
<p>To begin, as our playbook is a <code>.yml</code> file, we will start off our playbook using 3 dashes, <code>---</code>, to signify the start of the document.</p>
<p>Then we can define our host as <code>localhost</code> which should looks something like this:</p>
<pre>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;---
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- hosts: localhost
</pre>
<p>Now that we have our start and host defined, we can now start working on setting up our task which will replace a specified line within a file with a line of our own.</p>
<p>To get started we are going to have to signify the start of our tasks by using the <code>tasks:</code> option below our defined host. Once we have done that we can begin naming our task.</p>
<p>To name our task we can use the <code>- name:</code> option, which should look something like this:</p>
<pre>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;---
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- hosts: localhost
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;tasks:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- name: Replace Line Of File
</pre>
<p>With our task named, we can use the <code>lineinfile:</code> module to replace a specified line within a file using our playbook.</p>
<p>Within the <code>lineinfile</code> module, we will be using the following parameters:</p>
<pre>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;path:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;regexp:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;line:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;backrefs:
</pre>
<p>The <code>path:</code> parameter will allow us to set the location of the file, so that our playbook will be able to access it.</p>
<p>We can then use the <code>regexp:</code> parameter that will allow us to look for the specified regular expression within every line of our specified file.</p>
<p>Then we can use the <code>line:</code> parameter to replace the specified regular expression with our own specified line.</p>
<p>Lastly we can use the <code>backrefs:</code> paramters, which serves as a boolean which allows the change of the line based on whether or not hte regular expression has been found or not within the file.</p>
<p>An example of the parameters in action would look something like this:</p>
<pre>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;---
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- hosts: localhost
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;tasks:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- name: Replace Line Of File
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lineinfile:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;path: /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;regexp: '^(.*)Require all denied(.*)$'
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;line: 'Require all granted'
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;backrefs: yes
</pre>
<p>With this our ansible playbook should be able to replace the line <code>Require all denied</code> with our own specified line <code>Require all granted</code>.</p>
<br>

<h1><b>Caution</b></h1>
<pre>*** It is very important to keep the syntax of a yaml file in mind, as the syntax is very picky about the required spacing and layout of the commands. ***</pre>
</body>
</html>
