---
layout: post
title:  "2020/11/13 Blog 10"
date:   2020-11-12 12:40:45 -0700
categories: Senior-Design
---
<html>
<style>
	html, body, h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6, p {
		font-family:  "Courier";
	}

	pre code {
                font-family: Consolas,"courier new";
		color: #666666;
		background-color: #ffe9ec;
		padding: 2px;
		padding-right: 7px;
        }
	
	body {
		background-color:#cce9ff;
	}

	.site-header {
		background-color:#ffe9ec;
	}

	.site-footer {
		background-color:#ffe9ec;
	}

	.row {
 		display: flex;
	}

	.column {
  		flex: 33.33%;
  		padding: 20px;
	}
	
	.scalable {
		width: 50%;
		height: auto;
	}
</style>

<body>
<h1><b>Introduction</b></h1>
<p>This blog will document the steps for creating an IAM Role that allows S3 access and attaching the role to an EC2 instance in AWS.</p>
<br>

<h1><b>IAM Role</b></h1>
<p>To get started we need to navigate to IAM by selecting <code>Services > IAM</code>.</p>
<p>Once we have navigated to the IAM section, we can click on the Roles tab on the left side column and select <code>Create Role</code>.</p>
<p>From there we can choose EC2 and select <code>Next: Permissions</code>, in the bottom right corner.</p>
<p>Once we have done that go ahead and search for the <code>AmazonS3FullAccess</code> policy within the search bar, and select the policy.</p>
<p>Once we have the policy selected, go ahead and move onto <code>Next: Tags</code>, then <code>Next: Review</code>.</p>
<p>Go ahead and enter a name for your role, and then select <code>Create Role</code>.</p>
<p>Congratulations, you have successfully created an IAM Role that has the policy to allow S3 access.</p>
<br>

<h1><b>Adding IAM Role to EC2 Instance During Setup</b></h1>
<p>To add your IAM Role to your EC2 Instance, you can either add the role during the initial setup of the EC2 Instance, or after the fact.</p>
<p>To add your newly created IAM Role to your EC2 instance, during the setup of your EC2 instance, after you have selected your AMI, select the <code>Next: Configure Instance Details</code> in the bottom right. Once you select that, you should be at a configuration page for your EC2 instance, and one of the options should be titled: <code>IAM role</code>.</p>
<p>Select the drop down bar and find your IAM role that you created in the step above instead of the "none" option. Once you have that selected feel free to Review and Launch your instance.</p>
<br>

<h1><b>Adding IAM Role to Existing EC2 Instance</b></h1>
<p>To attach your IAM Role to an existing EC2 instance, within your EC2 Dashboard, select your instance that you would like to add your role to.</p>
<p>Then within the <code>Actions</code> drop down menu select <code>Instance Settings > Attach/Replace IAM role</code>.</p>
<p>Once you have done that you should now be on the Attach/Replace IAM role page, and you should see the drop down option to select the IAM role that you would like to attach. Once you have chosen the IAM role, click <code>Apply</code>, and you should be good to go from there.</p>
</body>
</html>
